---
layout: post
title:  Nearly Half way...
date:   2013-12-10 09:25:14
categories: Posts
---

I am nearly half was through my Internship, it is crazy how fast time has gone by. I am still loving it, even though I now i get up in the dark and go home in the dark, but it is all worth it. 

I have learnt so much and realised how useful a year out placement is. I feel I have learnt so much more than I ever have in this space of time. The things I'm loving the most is all the clients that I get to involved with. It is soooo weird, as all the websites I have use to buy their products or services, I am now I'm helping to fix and build them! Its crazy.

I am also being introduced to all new ways of writing code and all the plugins and handlebars that help you build a website so much quicker and more efficient. As i have been involved in some in-house work as well. They are creating a UI Type Kit which allows to have all the elements of website in basic form, which will allow a quicker build of website, as all the modules and elements will be available to hand. I so far have contributed with a; slideshow, carousel, product items and 6 different types of navigation.  So from doing the navigations for the kit, I have been given the job to do the companies main website, to add sub-nav to the main navigation of the website!! 

But the best part of my internship is the workplace itself, its full of great people and making my time here enjoyable. Its such a social place to be apart of and everyone seems more like friends than colleagues which is great. I also went to a karaoke night, which was probably the most awkward night of my life but so much fun at the same time. 


But just form this short space of time it has made me realise that I would and happily work in this sector for the rest of my career, as each day I am learning something new. My next task is getting my JavaScript skills up to scratch! 